the UN has warned that severe fuel
shortages May force it to stop
delivering food supplies to civilians in
Gaza Israel has refused to allow
gasoline into the territory saying it
would fall into the hands of Hamas the
UN is also calling for significantly
more Aid deliveries a first Convoy of
200 trucks crossed from Egypt into the
territory last weekend but UNICEF says
at least that many trucks is needed
every day around 450 per day were being
allowed in prior to hamas's attack on
Israel earlier this
month well we can now speak to Tomaso
delonga from the International
Federation of Red Cross and red crescent
societies thanks a lot for being with us
on DW business I think it'd be good to
just start off by understanding how the
red crescent funds its relief efforts in
Gaza where that money comes from what
it's relying on as sources for
that yeah thanks a lot for having me
today well um there are different uh
streams of funding
so of course as International Federation
of Ross and recent usually we are in
typically in every emergency response we
are supporting our National Society in
this case the MAV VI in Israel and the
Palestine recent in Palestine so there
are um funding that mainly we are
calling through the emergency appeals so
we had a we called for a regional Appeal
on neighboring countries which is uh uh
we appeal for 30 million Swiss frank and
then we have a different we have a
second tool that we are using in this
kind of emergencies which is the uh
disaster relief emergency fund which is
mainly a very quick way to transfer fun
to to our National Society and in this
case we transfer 1 million Swiss frank
each National Society to respond to the
first needs right after the beginning of
the
conflict and in terms of Gaza is there
enough of that money coming
in well of course I mean as we all know
the situation in Gaza it's it's
catastrophic for different reason I
don't think that it's just a matter of
money the the the Gaza Strip is sealed
uh only only some trucks are entering in
Gaza so of course needs are enormous and
it's not enough of what is happening at
the moment what we do hope is that we
will be able to transfer humanitarian to
bring humanitarian Aid inside the Gaza
Strip as soon as possible and together
with this we will also able to found
raise more and give more funds to pales
Crescent in this case
obviously you need the funds but you
also need to be able to get hold of the
resources that you buy with those funds
how easy is that at the moment in the
situation that that's taking place
around
there uh it's very complicated it's
clear that I mean usually typically we
also work through the local markets or
Buy in the local markets also to help
local communities after a disaster let's
say any emergency of course in this
situation is not possible because Gaza
Strip is running out of literally
everything so of course we are working a
lot on the Egyptian side because the
Rafa border at the southern part of the
Gaza Strip is the only door open at the
moment but then again if we are not able
to enter if we're not able to get a safe
access everything is becoming more
complicated and once you've gathered
those resources obviously you then need
to distribute them and get them to the
right people how do you make sure that
you do get them to the right people and
they don't fall into the into the wrong
hands for example like those of Hamas
you know Israel has said it doesn't want
it doesn't want petrol getting into to
to Gaza if it's going to go to Hamas for
example I mean how do you how do you go
about making sure you do get it to the
people in
need well as a International Federation
of rrent we have of course our principal
code of conduct and all the policies in
place and of course also all our
National Society are banded by these
rules and first and foremost I would say
neutrality but also Independence so
mainly what we are sure about is is that
once humanitarian Aid is in the hands of
the palestin Crescent they will
distribute Aid based on their
independent assessment to the people
more in need so this is uh this is what
we are doing in every kind of Emergency
Response as well as in Gaza and then of
course there is um there are a system in
place to make sure and to control that
this is
happening what about the money that's
actually needed within Gaza I mean the
UN said that Gaza was already short on
billions of dollars before the latest
war broke out how much money is needed
there now to just keep the basic
Services
going I think that speaking about a
figure at the moment it's almost
impossible it would be much more
speculation rather than a proper figure
because we are in a situation where even
need I mean the assessment of the needs
in the in in the field it's it's still
very complicated I mean we know that
food and water are running short we know
that fuel is not anymore there for
electricity we know from our people in
the hospitals in our two hospitals that
medicines and medicinal supplies are not
anymore there but then speaking about a
figure at the moment it's really
complicated what I can say is that needs
are growing day by day so the more this
conflict will go ahead the more this
figure will will
grow I that's the problem isn't it that
that it's getting deeper and deeper and
as infrastructure gets destroyed and
hospitals run out of important equipment
how can you even begin to start to
repair and replace things like
that well I think that in this phase
it's really much more uh to make sure
that we have a life-saving line of
supplies medicines food and water fuel
as I said that are really getting the
basic to the to the people in Gaza then
we we will think about reconstruction of
course I mean what I can tell you in the
hospitals at the moment we are talking
about empty shelves we are hearing
stories of surgeries made without
paining heers so we are really at the
moment we are really at a stage where
the basic are lacking so H it's
difficult to see to I mean to speak
about reconstruction we do hope that
when we'll have a pause on on on the
fighting we will be able to talk about
that and you're right to say that
obviously it's more important to focus
on on what's going on right now than the
the eventual reconstruction so let's
talk about for example medical supplies
and such is there enough out there and
in the region to be able to support
people in
Gaza out there yes I mean we have I mean
the needs are so enormous that we will
always uh be in need of something
sincerely speaking now reality is that
at the Rafa border again on the Egyptian
side there are cues of thousands and of
trucks ready to go in uh and this is why
we are calling on all the parties to
make sure that this access is not only
like 10 trucks per day or eight trucks
per day but it's really much more
continuous and sustainable and again to
have a safe humanitarian space where to
deliver this this humanitarian Aid we
saw a great wave of solidarity I have to
admit on both sides uh different
partners and donors ready to to help and
ready to react but then again in the
case of of Gaza Strip if we don't have
access it it's really complicated to
bring this humanitarian Aid so access
it's really the key at the moment well
indeed and one of the the key fears for
the conflict is that it does spread
Beyond you know the immediate territory
that it's currently in and into to
neighboring countries if that were to
happen would that make getting the
necessary Aid to Gaza almost
impossible you know as a humanitarian I
want to stay all the time optimistic so
I'm sure that even in the worst case
scenario we will not spare any effort to
bring humanitarian a inside Gaza Strip I
think that the problem here is really to
be of course prepare to the wars and
this is uh what we are doing also with
our regional appeal to make sure that
also neighboring countries and our
national Societies in neighboring
countries are ready to react and to
respond in case of any emergencies but
the hope is also that together with
being prepared it's spare no effort to
avoid the situation will go
worse okay Tomaso Del longa from The
Intern Federation of Red Cross and red
crescent societies thank you so much for
joining us on DW
business thank
you